THE EVOLUTION OF HUMAN-COMPUTER INTERACTION AND ITS TECHNOLOGICAL ADVANCEMENT WITH A FOCUS ON APPLICATIONS WITH ELECTRIC PAINT 

Abstract

Electric Paint is a type of paint that can be used to create circuit boards in a process known as "painting" a circuit. This involves applying the paint to a non-conductive surface, such as a piece of paper or fabric, in the desired pattern for the circuit. Once the paint has dried, it can be connected to other electronic components, such as resistors and capacitors, to create a functioning circuit. Since it can be painted on non-conductive surfaces such as walls and paintings, the appliances look camouflaged which makes the interface simple and neat. The interaction is done with touch or gesture by the users, so the interaction is not too difficult to learn, making the appliance easy to use and understand.

The main goal of this research is to study Human-Computer Interaction (HCI) with a focus on Electric Paint. The work studies HCI principles and implements them into the 2D musical instruments created with Electric Paint on a canvas, with the aim of making the product usable for the users. In particular, the paper investigates the applications of Electric Paint and how it can be implemented in users’ day-to-day lives. The appliance was made with Electric Paint, Raspberry Pi, PiCap, canvas, wires, and conduct tapes. The software is developed using Python on the Raspberry Pi OS (also called Raspbian). The PiCap has capacitive sensors to read the touch signals and send them to the Raspberry Pi. Hence, the PiCap becomes a bridge between Electric Paint and Raspberry Pi. The touch or gesture signals are conducted through Electric Paint, sensed by the PiCap, and converted into input data signals triggering the Raspberry Pi to send output signals. Next, a survey was conducted on around 110 respondents to inquire about the usability of the product. As per the design, Figma was used to design the interface digitally. The design of the canvas was modified according to the feedback to enhance the usability of the product. The final design is two canvases combined together where the top side has five 2D musical instruments which can produce musical tones with taps on the areas painted in black, the bottom side has a music playlist where users can tap on whichever genre of music they want to listen to, and the bottom right includes ’Animals for Kids’ which says "I am a *animal name*" when tapped on the animals.

Introduction 


Imagine a house where you can turn the lights on by just tapping on a wall. When you enter, the house can also change the environment according to your preferences. As soon as you enter, your clothes are able to detect your body temperature and set the room temperature accordingly. You have a beautiful painting in your living room and when you tap on certain areas on the canvas, songs from your favorite playlist start playing. There is a canvas right beside your door which turns a dim light on by detecting your presence and based on your hand’s proximity to the canvas: the closer your hand reaches to the canvas, the brighter the light gets. You go to your room and your mattress can sense your presence and turn the humidifier on. These scenarios are some examples of how Electric Paint can be used as an alternative for electric circuits to create interactive devices. But why use the alternate? When printed over a surface, and connected to the right hardware and software, Electric Paint can be used to create discrete, flexible, and large-scale capacitive sensors, which can be integrated into wooden furniture, regular walls, and fabrics. These sensors change a regular item into a device, just like, a person’s clothes detecting their temperature. Electric Paint has been on the market for a decade now, but the applications of Electric Paint have not been explored to their full extent to develop regular interactive devices in an intuitive way. 

Electric Paint can turn a house into a smart home. If ten years ago, someone said that their wall acted like a huge touchscreen, that would seem highly unlikely, but with Electric Paint, it is now a possibility. With proper hardware and software, that touchscreen wall can interact with all the other smart devices like setting up a projector or turning the television on. Especially with indoor appliances, it is better if some devices are not visible, so people do not feel like their space is filled with technology. Electric Paint helps to make the presence of technology subtle and camouflaged because the circuits and sockets are replaced by surfaces painted with Electric Paint. It could be used to modify kitchen appliances, for instance, an electric kettle could have a touch-sensitive control panel made with Electric Paint. A home security system that uses Electric Paint sensors can detect motion and alert the homeowner of any potential intruders, or a washing machine could have Electric Paint built-in sensors that can detect water levels, temperature, and clothing type and condition. These devices can then incorporate interactivity through Electric Paint embedded into the hardware. With easy control gestures like touch, users do not have to spend a long time figuring out how to use the technology, which potentially makes it more usable than the current smart devices. 

Apart from home appliances, Electric Paint can be used in other sectors like arts, clothing & fashion, education, and the automotive industry. Artists can use Electric Paint on dance stages where the dancers’ gestures and touch could change the music track. By doing so, producers do not have to spend long hours merging songs, but dancers need to make sure the areas are touched, or the gesture is sensed. There have been speculations about using Electric Paint in clothing to test the humidity and temperature and the data would be sent to the user’s personal device [10]. However, the clothing item needs to be worn at all times to make it functional. For middle school kids or higher, introducing Electric Paint and Raspberry Pi could give them an early start in the field of science and technology. It is possible to use Electric Paint in the automotive industry, although it is not yet a widespread 
practice. Electric Paint could be used to create flexible and lightweight circuits for cars or to make it easier to prototype and test new designs. For example, Electric Paint could be used to create sensors that monitor the condition of the car’s engine or to create touch-sensitive controls for the car’s dashboard. Electric Paint has introduced ways in which minimal electronics and circuits could be used to perform the same functions and this can be used in the future to create safe electronics for our day-to-day lives. 

As mentioned previously, technology is evolving to introduce new features for the users. The term better can mean anything: cheaper, smaller in size, minimal and simple functionalities, better interfaces, less work, fewer wires. Most of these demands started to get fulfilled when Human-Computer Interaction (HCI) principles were integrated into the technology. HCI principles "could save a small project $39000; a medium project $613000; and a large project $8200000" [26]. Furthermore, businesses can profit up to 5000 times the actual cost by incorporating such principles. This is because when HCI principles are applied to the software, the cost of system design and development reduces because of "reduced task time, fewer errors, reduced, user interruption, reduced load on support staff, riddance of training, and averting of modifications in software after release". Therefore, this research aims to explore the principles of HCI and apply them to interfaces with Electric Paint. 
This work studies HCI with a focus on Electric Paint. HCI’s main focus is improving the interaction between humans and computers to make it more user-friendly. In particular, I am interested in investigating the applications of Electric Paint. Electric Paint is a type of paint that can conduct electricity. When painted on a surface, the surface acts like an electric circuit. It can be used as various capacitive sensors like sensing a person’s motion or triggering an action such as playing music with just a touch. To demonstrate its effectiveness, I designed three interactive appliances on Figma. They were 2D interfaces of musical instruments, a light bulb, and a toy car. The goal was to paint a similar design 2D musical instruments that are playable by touch, a light bulb which turns on by touch, and a toy car that moves by touch as well on three separate canvases. A survey was conducted to check the overall usability of the products. Based on the feedback received, the designs were modified to enhance usability and all the features were added to one single canvas. The final canvas has five musical instruments, different music genre and animals pictures. Here, certain areas are painted with Electric Paint for interaction. The other materials used for the product were Raspberry Pi, PiCap, wires, and conduct tapes. The canvas consists of LEDs, a tapping button (also painted with Electric Paint) that activates one instrument at a time, and the instruments. The canvas hopes to provide a good user experience by investigating the HCI principles and applying them to the canvas interface. 
